title: Subspace 1.2
author: iuri_matias
summary: "Subspace 1.2 release - now with HttpProvider support & GraphQL Example"
categories:
  - announcements
  - releases
layout: blog-post
---

Subspace 1.2
===

### New Org
Subspace is now under the *@embarklabs* Org. Versions under @status-im Org have been deprecated.

```bash
# Using npm
npm install --save @embarklabs/subspace

# Using yarn
yarn add @embarklabs/subspace 
```

### HttpProvider support

Previously Subspace only worked with WebSockets for event subscriptions, and polled for changes only if the `callInterval` option was specified, displaying a warning indicating that the use of providers other than `WebSocketProvider` was discouraged. 

With this release, Subspace will identify if the provider supports subscriptions and use them automatically. If no subscriptions are available, it will assume the provider does not support them and poll the contract for new changes periodically.

Subscriptions can be disabled with the `disableSubscriptions` option.

```Javascript
let subspace = new Subspace({disableSubscriptions: true})
```

### GraphQL Example

An example DApp using GraphQL with Subspace can now be found at https://github.com/embarklabs/subspace/tree/master/examples/react-graphql-example1 . 

### Bug fixes

- Fixed obtaining the `from` address when instantiating a Web3 Contract with Subspace tracking functionality
- `.track()` is added only to event names as they're specified in the ABI. Tracking events by signature is not allowed

### Contributions

Subspace and the entire Embark labs organization are open source. As such we welcome contributions and input from the community using the product. 

